In the previous step we created a simple method to handle the users create request. So we mapped a post url
to slash users and map the request body using the at reques body annotation.
And we were able to save the user back. But what we have not done is we have not returned a status of
created.
So wheneve we want to return the fact that a resource is created we need to return a status called created.
That's a best practice. And the other thing is the URI of the resource which we created is slash user slash four.
But the client does not know about this yet because we have not sent him that detail. In this step,
we would learn how to create, how to return a status of created back and how to set the URI of the created
resource into the response.
Let's get started now. First thing is I would want to set the return status of created.
How do I do that?
There is something called response entity. Response entity dot created. That's the one which we can use to return
a created status. Response entity is something which is already part of the Spring Framework.
If you look at the response entity, its basically a extension of HTTP entity. However,
the additional thing is you can actually return a state code back. And thats what we would want to
return back, right? A status code of created. When I use the created method in response and entity
I would be able to pass in what was the location of the resource which was created.
Now how do I create the URI for the location?
How do I create the URI of the location of the resource that is created?
There is something called servelt URI components
builder. I would import it in.
Oops! Servlet URI components builder. Lets put that in.
Now I would actually use this. If you look at the
servelt URI components builder, there is something called - from current requests. So I can go ahead and say
from current request. So I would want to…how do I want to map the URI?
I'd want to take this URI…slash users.
And I would want to append the Id of the saved user.
So I have slash user, right? That's the current request URI.
So I would want to take the current request URI and I would want to append slash four. That's the
newly created.
So this one is… I can get this by saying, user dot get Id. So the new saved user..I can ..from it get the getId.
So I can get this save user dot getId.
And what I would do is I'd create a simple template. So I'll say Id. So I'd try and replace this Id with saved user
dot get Id. The way I can get the current request
URI is by using the servlet URI components builder.
I would want to get the current request and I would want to append something to the URI of it and there
is a method called path. The path method allows me to append some thing to the you URI. What I want
to append is slash Id.
So I'd say path slash Id. Obviously, this is string.
So I'd need to put it within double quotes. Let's do that.
And then after you have the
path, then I can actually do something called build and expand.
I would need to pass the value that I want to replace in this variable.
The value I would want to replace in this variable is..what do I want replace? Saved users dot get Id.
Let's replace that.
From this I would want to get the calculated URI. How do we do that? Dot to URI. And that's the
URI of the new service or the new resource that we have created. Quickly revise what we have done until now.
So this would return the current request URI.
Servlet URI components builder from current request, it would get me this. I'm appending slash
Id to that. And then I'm replacing saved user dot get Id.
That's basically what we are doing in here.
Now I'll take this location.
So assign statement.
This is the location that is created and now I can actually do response entity of user dot
response entity dot created location and I'll build this and return this back.
The thing is our return type right now is
void. So let's change that as well.
I would change the return type to response entity. I have waited for the server to pick up the change.
Now I can go ahead and execute the post request to users again.
So first users in the body, I'd want to actually have James and let's send this out right now.
If you look at the response which comes back it has a status of two hundred and one created.
When we create a resource the best status to return is two hundred and one. That's one of the things which
is HTTP best practices. And that's what we followed during creating our RESTful services.
So says two hundred and one, created. The request has been fulfilled and resulted in a new resource
being created. That's what we have done.
And if you go into the headers.
So if you're going to the headers of the response, it also has a header called location. In the location
what we are returning is the URI of the created user.
The URI of the created user James is localhost 8080 user slash four. That's what we are returning back.
Now if I want to, actually, I can go and execute a get requests to this URI and you'd see that I'm
getting the details of James back. In the step,
what they have done is we have returned a status of two hundred and one. That's created.
So the resource is properly created.
That's what we said by saying two O one created and we are also returning the location of the created
user in a header.
So if the client or the consumer wants to know where the source was created, they have a easy way.
They just need to pick up the location from the header of the response.  In the last two steps
we created a simple method to allow creation of a user.
What we did is we created a post mapping to slash users.
URI. We are accepting the content of the user as the input and we are returning a status of 200 and one or created
back, when it's successful.
Until the next step, bye-bye.